a major development in the last hour
Jordan has announced it will recall its
ambassador to Israel the government also
says Israel's Ambassador cannot return
to Jordan let's bring in Alan Fischer in
occupied East Jerusalem for more on this
how significant is this move by Jordan
Allen it's pretty significant
diplomatically that Jordan one of
Israel's neighbors has said that they
have no intention of sending their
Ambassador back they're very angry at
what is happening in Gaza they said if
Israel stops the war in Gaza and stops
the humanitarian catastrophe it is
causing then it will reconsider its
decision this have comes of course after
a number of South American countries
took action diplomatically uh on uh on
Tuesday we saw uh Bolivia cut all ties
with Israel we saw Chile and Colombia
recall their ambassadors as well will it
affect anything on the ground highly
unlikely it would be much more potent if
someone like the United States or the
United Kingdom withdrew their
ambassadors or certainly Express their
diplomatic displeasure beyond the the
war should be conducted within
International humanitarian laws if it
was more than that then this would have
more of an impact but it's not going to
change what is happening with the
Israelis on the ground in Gaza um Alan
Israel has confirmed now that 15 of its
troops have been killed uh during its
ground incursion into Gaza Hamas says it
K uh Israel also killed uh seven
captives uh during the attack on jabalia
refugee camp uh on Tuesday how is all of
that playing out in Israel right now how
much pressure does it put on prime
minister Netanyahu and his government on
top of the pressure that already
exists well there's certainly a number
of people in Israel who are concerned at
the loss of any soldiers but indeed
they're concerned about the loss of any
life in Gaza at all and have called for
an end to stop the war but there are
many who support what soldiers are doing
in fact one interview I saw on Israeli
television just a few hours ago someone
said there's a price to be paid for
making Israeli safe we would rather the
soldiers didn't die but this is the
reality of the situation as far as the
captives are concerned the fact that
seven have died according to Hamas
including two foreign Nationals will let
a lot of people say we told you so there
was real pressure on Israel before the
start of the ground war not to go ahead
because they wanted there to be a window
where it was possible to negotiate the
release uh of the captives and many
people warned that if the war started to
the extent that we're seeing then a lot
of people would die now Hamas have said
that 50 people already died in the early
bombardment in Gaza but the fact over
the last 24 hours another seven have
died but it's not going to change the
reality again of what is happening the
Israelis were aware that this could
happen and in fact people very high up
in the Army said some of the hostages
will die when we're doing this but they
view this as a necessary uh step to take
to try and secure uh Israel's future
they see this as a war against Hamas and
obviously it's continuing right across
Gaza with a rising death toll but there
is little con little concern would be a
bit harsh but there is uh nowhere near
the concern about inflicting deaths on
on the the captives if it means Israel
will defeat Hamas in the long run Alan
in uh occupied East Jerusalem Alan
Fischer thank you very much